Workloads input table:

This is the input and check area for workloads and configuration requirements.

<B>Net available capacity in TB</B> Input for workload capacity: Usable capacity needed for this kind of workload in TB. The usable capacity can be split into different parts, like: ""I want to have 30% of the xxx workload to be on flash media for a low latency."" - See range "Input for flash portion of the workload" below.

<B>Flash portion in %</B> Input for flash portion of the workload. Portion of workload to use flash (SSD) media in %. The remainder goes into HDD fronted by NVMe for RocksDB/WAL.
For flash, the SSDs can be fronted by Optanes. This is defined in the appropriate h/w config setting for a config. No further differentiation can be done. Since multiple workloads of the same kind might need different configurations, simply specify another workload with appropriate config. There is no need to put similar kinds into a single one.

<B>Use case</B> Input for type of workload - in terms of storage type and protocol. The type of workload can be ""block"" using rbd block device, ""iscsi-block"" using iSCSI gateways backed by rbd block device, ""rgwdata"" for object, ""filedata"" for data pools of CephFS, ""filemetadata"" for metadata pools of CephFS. <BR>RGW workloads can be using additional pools for upload of multi-part objects. Those actually need replicated pools. If those need different performance, account for the extra capacity, depending on the data stream and size of objects and probability of failed uploads with respect to deletion time window for cleaning up incomplete objects. The capacity could also go into flash and then one would select a portion of flash for RGW workload also whereas most object storage use cases don't use flash for storing the objects. This doesn't include index pool and thus no additional capacity must be reserved here - a dedicated set of NVMe of type 6 will be planned to accomodate the index pools.
Metadata for CephFS (filemetadata) should go into flash pools. Data of CephFS can use flash as well as hybrid configuration based on HDD - the workload type would be important to be matched with either flash or HDD. Both types can be used within a CephFS file system, however, only assigned for use per directory and all it's subdirectories if not using the default one as for the root of the filesystem.
rbd and iscsi workloads are usually good at flash storage, however, some could go onto HDD as well if the latency requirements are very low. Remember that the IO size for HDD is being changed to 4KB as of Ceph 4 and all reads usually come from the media directly in highly concurrent workloads to the same OSD (which is usually the case, anyways) and also all writes >=4KB will be directly written to HDD.

<B>Number of replica</B> Input for desired number of replica for a pool. Number of replica for a pool. Default requirement is replica 3 for HDD and general use, replica 2 is supported for SSD. Note: With 2 DC configurations, only replica 4 is supported for all workloads and types of media for OSDs.
Replica 3 is required for HDD, but also recommended in any scenario also for flash. Replica 1 can be used for scratch or applications that bring their own independent redundancy. However, it's generally not recommended. Those pools use dedicated media on individual nodes but will fail alltogether if only one media becomes unavailable.
Any replica within a single DC only can be used but more than 4 replica are not recommended because of elevated latency.
In a stretched cluster scenario, if a workload uses more DCs than required, the workload is distributed across all selected DCs equally for planning the environment.
Any planning of stretched clusters (using more than 1 DC in sum for all of the workloads) requires an architecture review and a support exception.

<B># of main DCs</B> Input for number of DCs to be used for the replicas. This number of DCs is used to host the number of replica by default. It's not reflecting the number of DCs effectively used. Any number of DCs can be used for a workload if the number of DCs matches any useful redundancy layout. In case of more DCs to be used for this workload that is greater than the actual number of replicas used will result in a distribution of the workloads capacity. This is assumed to be even across all involved DCs. E.g., with replica 3, exactly one or 3 DCs would be ok, but also 4 DCs could be used. In the latter case, the capacity per DC occupied for this workload would be 3/4 of the nominal usable capacity.

<B>Size for full performance</B> Currently unused. It might be removed if this functionality will not emerge.

<B>Size for high density</B> Currently unused. It might be removed if this functionality will not emerge.

<B>for RGW: avg object size in KiB (mandatory for rgwdata)</B> Input for the average size of objects for RGW workloads in KB. This is mandatory for any rgwdata workload. It reflects the assumed average object size used in this workload. The average workload size is needed to calculate the needed capacity for the object index. This is especially important if versioning is enabled on the buckets and multiple versions of the objects might be created. In conjunction with input of "Life cycle enabled on rgwdata ? #of versions per object" for the number of object versions to expect, this gives the needed capacity for the index pools based on the workloads capacity claim.
The cells are observed and if the proper input is missing or badly formatted, a message will be displayed.

<B>for file: avg file size in KiB</B> Input for the average file size in KB for CephFS worklods. This is mandatory for any file workload, irrespective of using CephFS directly or through SMB/NFS. The average value is important to understand the structure of the overall capacity allocation. While large files need roughly the full capacity divided by the min_alloc_size of BlueStore (actually 4KB), smaller files or unaligned small files might create a lot of overhead because of the padding up to the min_alloc_size. If nothing is provided as input, a default value of 10KiB is assumed.

<B>Data centers to use: select by placing ""x"" into the cell. If not used, simply leave it empty.</B> Selection of DCs to be used for a given workload. Select per workload the individual DCs to be used for the workload (an desired but appropriate number). If the number of DCs are not applicable to the selected number of replica and main DCs, an error messages will appear.

<B>#DCs</B> Displays the number of DCs selected for any workload. Provided as check by the user.

<B>RGW cache per server ? (x = one NVMe per server)</B> Selection for RGW using cache devices. If a rgwdata workload should use flash devices for dedicated cache devices for object reads, this should be selected here. A server configuration must provide those NVMe of type 2 to be able to provide the cache devices plus it must have been selected for a configuration in the table for the chassis configuration. If this is not selected, the claim will be ignored and no configuration will be calculated for this workload - thus no cache device will be planned for this configuration.

<B>Life cycle enabled on rgwdata ? #of versions per object (1 = default, off) (Only valid numbers > 0. Estimation about version of any object to hold.)</B> Input for object version life cycle. If object versioning should be enabled for the workload, the average estimated number for versions per object should be provided here. If no versioning should be used, leave it with 1. This number should be an estimation of the number of additional versions to plan for any object created in this workload. If versioning is only enabled for a portion of the workloads capacity, treat the other ones as being 1 only but still input the resulting average as the value for all objects to expect. If one thinks that 100 versions would be created but only for a portion, calculate the resulting number based on the ratio of the capacity used by the portion of the workload with versioning enabled in relation to the overall capacity planned for this workload: for 10 TB out of 100 TB this would mean 100versions/100TB\*10TB=10versions as the average number.

<B>Use dedicated flash pool for rgw index ?</B> This setting will use a dedicated device per node to place the object index for any of the S3 buckets. Instead of placing the object index onto the OSDs directly, this dedicated pool will be used for index only, allowing to grow to full size of the devices and being expandable. Under normal conditions, the object index is placed onto the OSDs as omap. With a very high number of small objects eating up the omap space which could affect the overall performance. With smaller but fast index devices in a separate pool, the omap handling would not affect other workloads. (code reference: NVMe6)

<B>SSD: Use dedicated flash media for RocksDB (OSD metadata) (default for HDD, selection for SSD only)?</B> Selecting dedicated flash media for RocksDB locates RocksDB not on block media (playload location) but on a separated device. This may or may not include the WAL for the RocksDB, depending on the setting for "SSD: Use dedicated flash media for separating WAL (w/ or w/o separate RocksDB) ?". Without setting "SSD: Use dedicated flash media for separating WAL (w/ or w/o separate RocksDB) ?" the location of the WAL is on the same device as RocksDB and the performance needs miust be accounted for. The effectively used size on the RocksDB device varies based on the workload and capacity is calculated with the default (or custom) values for capacity ratio, varying per workload between 0.5 and 10 percent of the block device. Any omap entires, however, will live here as well. For S3 workloads not using a dedicated pool for RGW index data, this RocksDB device will be used for object index data stored in omaps. (code reference: NVMe5)

<B>SSD: Use dedicated flash media for separating WAL (w/ or w/o separate RocksDB) ?</B> The selection places the WAL of the RocksDB onto a dedicated device. The capacity of the device is small, to accomodate the WAL only. While the capacity is small, the performance might be determining factor if many small writes go through this device (log). Usually, all smaller writes than the min_alloc_size (default 4KB) may travel through this device, so write heavy workloads with an i/o size of smaller than 4KB or for esarure coding with objects smaller than the 4KB will land here first and the device might become a bottleneck even if the block device is capable of providing better performance. (Object storage (S3) workloads with erasure would use effectively the portion of the capacity of the object size devided by the number m from m+k of the erasure coding scheme). This seperate WAL device can be used even with or without a dedicated RocksDB device. For S3 workloads not using a dedicated pool for RGW index data, this dedicated WAL device will be used for storing the object index data in omaps. (code reference: NVMe3 / optane)

<B>NVMe1: Use dedicated flash media for RocksDB (OSD metadata) (default for HDD, selection for SSD only)?</B> Selecting dedicated flash media for RocksDB locates RocksDB not on block media (playload location) but on a separated device. This may or may not include the WAL for the RocksDB, depending on the setting for "NVMe1: Use dedicated flash media for separating WAL (w/ or w/o separate RocksDB) ?". Without setting "NVMe1: Use dedicated flash media for separating WAL (w/ or w/o separate RocksDB) ?" the location of the WAL is on the same device as RocksDB (NVMe7) and the performance needs miust be accounted for. The effectively used size on the RocksDB device varies based on the workload and capacity is calculated with the default (or custom) values for capacity ratio, varying per workload between 0.5 and 10 percent of the block device. Any omap entires, however, will live here as well. For S3 workloads not using a dedicated pool for RGW index data, this RocksDB device will be used for object index data stored in omaps. (code reference: NVMe7)

<B>NVMe1: Use dedicated flash media for separating WAL (w/ or w/o separate RocksDB) ?</B> The selection places the WAL of the RocksDB onto a dedicated device. The capacity of the device is small, to accomodate the WAL only. While the capacity is small, the performance might be determining factor if many small writes go through this device (log). Usually, all smaller writes than the min_alloc_size (default 4KB) may travel through this device, so write heavy workloads with an i/o size of smaller than 4KB or for esarure coding with objects smaller than the 4KB will land here first and the device might become a bottleneck even if the block device is capable of providing better performance. (Object storage (S3) workloads with erasure would use effectively the portion of the capacity of the object size devided by the number m from m+k of the erasure coding scheme). This seperate WAL device can be used even with or without a dedicated RocksDB device. For S3 workloads not using a dedicated pool for RGW index data, this dedicated WAL device will be used for storing the object index data in omaps. (code reference: NVMe8)
<B></B>
